<HTML>
 <HEAD>
  <!-- $MVD$:app("MicroVision WebExpress","769") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:template("","0","0") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("18","5acfc","Orange","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("19","ffd6ce","Lavender","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("20","eed784","Light Blue","0") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("21","83c8f5","Peach","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("22","83f1ba","Mint Green","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("23","f3e4f3","Very LT Purple","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("24","d9fff0","Vry lt green","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("25","fafdbb","Vry lt blue","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("26","7ce6f8","Vry Lt brown","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("27","dae8fe","Pink","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("28","73ffff","Lt. Yellow","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("29","4f4fff","Med. Red","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("30","5acfc","Gold","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:color("31","e9569f","Purple","1") -->
  <!-- $MVD$:fontset("Verdana","Verdana","Arial","Times New I2") -->
  <TITLE>News from Pueblo West Amateur Radio Club, Pueblo West, CO - Feb. 2010</TITLE>
  <META NAME="DESCRIPTION" CONTENT="Monthly news from Pueblo West Amateur Radio Club, Pueblo West, Colorado">
  <META NAME="KEYWORDS" CONTENT="Pueblo West Amateur Radio Club, Colorado, amateur radio, ham radio, portable radio, short wave radio, Pueblo West, ham radio news">
 </HEAD>
 <BODY BACKGROUND="paper3.gif">
  <P ALIGN=CENTER>
   <FONT FACE="Verdana,Arial,Times New I2"><FONT SIZE="6"><B>Monthly 
   Meeting News</B></FONT></FONT></P>
  <CENTER>
  <P ALIGN=CENTER>
   <TABLE WIDTH="100%" CELLPADDING="6" CELLSPACING="4" BORDER="4">
    <TR>
     <TD WIDTH="100%" VALIGN=TOP>
      <P ALIGN=CENTER>
       <FONT SIZE="5"><B>February 20, 20</B></FONT><B><FONT SIZE="5">10</FONT></B></P>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">President Jim McConnell, NE0DA, called the meeting to 
       order at 2:05 p.m. Members in attendance were:</FONT></P>
      <OL>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">J. Dagel, KD0GTR</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Dwight DeWitt, WB0HBJ</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Dan Broadbooks, NG0T</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Jim McConnell, NE0DA</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Jane Ewing, KE6DCE</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Bill Ewing, WA0KAQ</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Billie Vahldiek, K5LKT</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Paul Sipes, KB0JIT</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Bill Fortune, W0NHF</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Bill Fortune, KB0RPD</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Ed Force, KD5MHI</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Andy Lloyd, AB8HQ</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Ralph Schuster, KA0RER</FONT></P>
       </OL>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">Four guests were also present. Kirk Kelley and Bob 
       Tillotson, students of the club's entry level classes, were first 
       time visitors, as was Kaleb Belin. In addition, Harry Lloyd (W8MGW) 
       from Berrien Springs, Michigan, and father of the club's Vice-President
        Andy Lloyd, was also in attendance. Following the meeting, Bob 
       Tillotson became a member of the club.</FONT></P>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">February Birthdays: Stan Deyo (KC0UZG) and Jane Ewing (KE6DCE)</FONT></P>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">WA0KAQ read the Secretary's report and made a 
       correction to last month's minutes. The correction was in reference 
       to the club's call sign. Last month's report stated, &quot;Should the 
       trustee of the license change in the future, the license shall retain 
       its Extra Class designation.&quot; It should have said, &quot;The 
       license class will change according to the class of the Trustee, 
       however the call sign will remain the same.&quot;</FONT></P>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">Club Treasurer Dan Broadbooks (NG0T) reported the club 
       has $409.07 in its treasury. This consists of $25 in the change fund 
       and the balance in the bank account. He reported that the check 
       printing charge from the bank was $11.93 instead of the $15.00 
       reported earlier, and that the checks have been received. WA0KAQ 
       submitted a bill for $13.40 for the cost of the club's Vanity Call Sign.</FONT></P>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">Jane (KE6DCE), Ways &amp; Means Committee, asked for 
       more fundraising ideas to explore. The members liked the idea of 
       another Bake Sale in the spring, and Jane will look for an open May 
       weekend at Walmart. She is also exploring limited sales at Field Day 
       and perhaps a raffle or silent auction. Other ideas were discussed 
       such as having a booth at Lovell Park on July 4, or possibly a 
       &quot;Slave Day&quot; in the spring. Bob Tillotson volunteered to 
       help Jane with fundraising.</FONT></P>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">President McConnell (NE0DA) noted what had been 
       accomplished at January meeting:</FONT></P>
      <OL>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">Programs were given on analog and digital SSTV.</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">WA0KAQ was appointed as Trustee for the club call sign.</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">NE0DA and WA0KAQ signed the application for a club 
        call sign.</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">KE6DCE was appointed as head of the Ways and Means Committee</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">The club made some preliminary plans for Field Day.</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">NE0DA announced that Technician Class license 
        classes will be held on Thursdays at Fire Station 3 beginning January 28.</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">After reviewing the HF Net progress, it was 
        decided to continue the Tuesday night net and drop the Sunday morning net.</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Members decided to meet informally for coffee or 
        breakfast once a month between meetings. The first meeting was 
        scheduled for 9:00 a.m. on February 6 at the Hen House Caf&eacute;.</FONT></P>
       </OL>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">Old Business:</FONT></P>
      <OL>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">KD0RPD reported that the Metropolitan District's 
        Committee of Architecture approved our free use of the common parking 
        area at Cheers Plaza, 334 S. McCulloch Blvd., (cross street W. Hahn's 
        Peak Ave.) for our Field Day activities. The Committee did express 
        some concerns about our signage, type of vehicles, antennas and other 
        structures that we would be erecting. There will also be restrictions 
        on how close to the street we can set up. Bill brought in two forms 
        (one for signs, and one for vehicles, etc.) that will need to be 
        filled out and returned by May 18 for the Committee's May 27 meeting. 
        Bill is also working on obtaining a porta potty for the site.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">KB0RPD reported that 12-volt deep cycle UPS batteries 
        will soon be available from the National Weather Service for club 
        use. There will be one or two battery boxes available, and we can 
        change out batteries as needed. These may come in very handy for 
        Field Day use. Some of them, with inverters, could be used to supply 
        power for the logging computers used in the competition and help 
        conserve on battery power for radio use. They could be charged ahead 
        of time using solar power.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">WA0KAQ reported six members have signed up for ARES - 
        the Amateur Radio Emergency Service. All who have signed up for ARES 
        were invited to check into the District 16 ARES Net at 7:30 p.m. on 
        Sundays on the 146.790 repeater in Pueblo.</FONT></P>
       </OL>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">Four items that were tabled at the January meeting 
       were brought back for discussion.</FONT></P>
      <OL>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">Auditing the treasury - A motion was made by Paul, 
        KB0JIT, to audit the treasury annually in December prior to the 
        club's meeting. This would be done by two members who are not club 
        officers. The auditors will be chosen closer to the time of the 
        audit. The motion was seconded by Billy, K5LKT. The motion was approved.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">Does the club need a Board of Directors? - Dan, NG0T, 
        who did our incorporation paperwork, stated theoretically we should 
        have at least one director even though we do not have to report 
        anything to the state concerning directors. Dan will research this 
        issue further. The item was tabled once again.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">Does the club need to place additional legal language 
        in the Constitution to formally ratify the club's non-profit status? 
        After consulting with Dan, NG0T, it was decided that the addition of 
        this language to what we already have in the Constitution is not 
        needed. We are a non-profit corporation, similar to a Chamber of 
        Commerce, but not a 501(3)c corporation.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">Should the club lower the quorum percentage necessary 
        to make minor Constitutional changes needed to meet requirements for 
        incorporation purposes, and not for changing the main parts of the 
        Constitution? This item was dropped, as the changes that were thought 
        to be needed are no longer an issue.</FONT></P>
       </OL>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">New Business:</FONT></P>
      <OL>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">KB0JIT and KD5MHI reported that 21 prospective 
        students showed up for the first entry level amateur radio class held 
        on January 28. Most were Boy Scouts, however, whose weekly meeting 
        falls on the same night as the class. Both instructors voiced their 
        agreement that an attempt will be made to secure another day and time 
        for those who want to study for their license. In addition, Ed will 
        be helping some of the Scouts earn their Communications Merit Badge. 
        At this time, there are four adult students working toward their 
        Technician Class licenses.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">WA0KAQ announced that the FCC issued the club a 
        sequential license on January 26. The call sign was KD0JZC. After 
        consulting with the club President, Jim McConnell, NE0DA, an 
        application was made for a Vanity Call Sign. The club received the 
        call sign NA0PW on February 17. The &quot;PW&quot; suffix was chosen 
        for &quot;Pueblo West,&quot; and the &quot;NA&quot; prefix was chosen 
        as because it works well both on voice and cw. That cost was $13.40, 
        and the license is good for 10 years. Trusteeship of the license can 
        be transferred within that time if desired. As stated earlier, the 
        class of license will vary with the license class of the Trustee, but 
        the call sign will remain the same.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">The club's web pages have now been placed on their own 
        site at http://www.qsl.net/na0pw, and more pages have been added. 
        Stop by for a look and let WA0KAQ know what you think of it. There 
        will be more information added in the future.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">Since the club has its call sign, WA0KAQ noted that 
        the members should be thinking about what they want to do about QSL 
        cards. Various types of cards were discussed. There is no rush on 
        this item, however it is very possible that cards will be needed 
        following the club's Field Day activity.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">A VE Session was held Saturday, Feb. 13, at the 
        Rawlins Library in Pueblo. Jane Ewing (KE6DCE) and Bill Fortune III 
        (KB0RPD) upgraded from Technician Class to General Class, and Ed 
        Force (KD5MHI) upgraded from General Class to Amateur Extra. 
        Congratulations on making the grade and also giving the club a 100% 
        success rate at the test session!</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">The ARRL Volunteer Examiner team program was 
        discussed, and the consensus of the membership was to continue to use 
        Pueblo Ham Club for our VE testing. Our club currently has three 
        Volunteer Examiners holding Amateur Extra licenses, and some other 
        members will become accredited shortly. Our current Volunteer 
        Examiners have already offered their services to Pueblo Ham Club as 
        needed, and WA0KAQ helped with the February 13 session held in Pueblo.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">NE0DA stated that the January 6 Ragchew at the Hen 
        House Caf&eacute; was a big success, and he encouraged everyone to 
        attend the next one which will be held on Saturday, March 6, at 9:00 a.m.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">NE0DA stated he was very pleased at the turnout for 
        this month's meeting, however there are a few members we have missed 
        seeing lately. He asked for a volunteer to help keep in touch with 
        members with courtesy telephone calls, and also find out if they have 
        issues that are keeping them from the meetings that we might help 
        address. Vice-President Andy Lloyd volunteered to help with this.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">NE0DA appointed KB0JIT and KD5MHI as Training 
        Coordinators for the club. They are our current instructors and also 
        may now provide some training for the club as well.</FONT></P>
       </OL>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">WA0KAQ announced he is putting together a Field Day 
       Manual for the club members so they will have as much of the 
       pertinent information as possible in one place. Before he could 
       finish it, he was in need of some items the members might be able to 
       supply for Field Day. The following members stepped forward to supply 
       the needs:</FONT></P>
      <OL>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">KB0JIT volunteered to bring a 2-meter rig and 
        temporary antenna for use in demonstrating one phase of ham radio to 
        visitors. He also will supply a code practice oscillator and key for 
        an educational activity.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">Extra tables and chairs will be supplied by KB0RPD, 
        KD5MHI and new member Bob Tillotson. Bob also volunteered the use of 
        a laptop with CD drive for use on the information table, and his 
        cargo trailer if needed. The trailer will be of great service to 
        provide secure storage of the three ground-mounted solar panels and 
        other items during the night.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">NE0DA and KB0RPD will each supply a 10x10 pop-up shade.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">AB0HQ volunteered to bring tarps to cover tables, 
        etc., as needed.</FONT></P>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">After seeing a photo of how Mountain Amateur Radio 
        Club from Teller County mounted their banner, KD5MHI volunteered to 
        build a PVC frame for our banner.</FONT></P>
       </OL>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">Thank you very much to all who are contributing their 
       equipment and time for this event! It shows what a group effort can 
       do. The Field Day Handbooks should be ready by the next meeting. They 
       will be e-mailed, not printed, as they will be about 30 pages in 
       length. A Field Day sign-up sheet will be included in the handbook.</FONT></P>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">Program:</FONT></P>
      <OL>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">KB0JIT presented a very informative program on how to 
        set up an emergency backup battery system. Paul also handed out 
        schematics of the circuits he used to build both a low power backup 
        system (15 amps) and a high power system (25 amps or more). The 
        systems can be set up to charge batteries when commercial power is 
        available, and these batteries in turn run 12-volt devices. They can 
        be built to automatically switch radios and other 12-volt accessories 
        to battery power when the commercial power goes off.</FONT></P>
       </OL>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">We have a celebrity among us! Dan (NG0T) brought in a 
       1977 CQ magazine. On the cover was a photo of the hams who attended 
       that year's MARAC (Mobile Amateur Radio Club) meeting in Louisville, 
       KY. Dan was one of the hams in the photo. Dan has worked all the U.S. 
       counties mixed mode, and all U.S. counties by cw. We're hoping Dan 
       can find the original photo so we can scan it for posting on the website.</FONT></P>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">Watch for these coming events:</FONT></P>
      <OL>
       <LI>
       <P>
        <FONT SIZE="4">Each Tuesday evening we have our VHF net at 7:00 on 
        145.445 FM simplex. This is followed by an HF net on 28.305 USB at 
        7:30 p.m.</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Colorado District 16 ARES Net meets each Sunday 
        evening at 7 p.m. on Pueblo's 146.790 repeater. Visitors are welcome 
        to check in.</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Feb. 27 &amp; 28 - North America QSO Party 
        (DIGITAL) - Feb. 27, 1800Z to Feb. 28, 0600Z - Good practice for 
        Field Day!</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">March 6-7 - International DX Contest (PHONE) -- 
        Mar. 6, 0000Z, to Mar. 7, 2400</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Sat., March 6, 9:00 a.m. -- Ragchew with coffee or 
        breakfast - Hen House Cafe</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Sat., March 20, 2:00 p.m. - Monthly PWARC Meeting 
        at 2:00 p.m., Pueblo West Library</FONT><BR>
        <LI><FONT SIZE="4">Next month's program will feature the digital 
        modes. PSK31 software will be discussed, and KB0JIT and WA0KAQ will 
        give a live demonstration using Digipan and FLdigi software.</FONT></P>
       </OL>
      <P>
       <FONT SIZE="4">The meeting was adjourned at 4:08 p.m.</FONT></TD>
    </TR>
   </TABLE></P>
  </CENTER><CENTER>
  <P ALIGN=CENTER>
   <TABLE WIDTH="300" CELLPADDING="4" CELLSPACING="2" BORDER="2">
    <TR>
     <TD WIDTH="50%" VALIGN=TOP>
      <P ALIGN=CENTER>
       <A HREF="index.htm"><IMG SRC="homebtn.gif" WIDTH="120" HEIGHT="30" VSPACE="0" HSPACE="0" BORDER="0" LOOP="0"></A></TD>
     <TD WIDTH="50%" VALIGN=TOP>
      <P ALIGN=CENTER>
       <A HREF="News2.htm"><IMG SRC="top.gif" WIDTH="120" HEIGHT="30" VSPACE="0" HSPACE="0" BORDER="0" LOOP="0"></A></TD>
    </TR>
   </TABLE>
 </BODY>
</HTML>